Second grade language Arts
Reading foundations
A.	Syllables
1	How many syllables does the word have? 
 
2	Sort by the number of syllables 
 
B.	Rhyming
1	Choose the picture that rhymes with the word 
 
2	Which word does not rhyme? 
 
3	Complete the rhyme 
 
4	Complete the poem with a word that rhymes 
 
5	Spell rhyming words to answer riddles 
 
C.	Phoneme manipulation
1	Change the sound in a word 
 
2	Delete the sound in a word 
 
D.	Consonant digraphs
1	Complete the word with the correct digraph: ch, sh, th, ph, wh 
 
2	Spell the digraph word: ch, sh, th, ph, wh 
E.	Consonant blends
1	Complete the word with the correct initial consonant blend 
 
2	Complete the word with the correct final consonant blend 
 
3	Spell the word with a consonant blend 
 
4	Complete the word with a three-letter consonant blend 
 
5	Complete the sentence with a three-letter consonant blend word 
 
F.	Digraphs, blends, and silent letters
1	Spell words with final consonant patterns: ng, nk 
 
2	Spell words with qu and x 
 
3	Spell words with ch, sh, th, ph, wh, ng, nk, qu, and x 
 
4	Sort by initial consonant blend or digraph 
 
5	Complete the words with silent letters 
 
G.	Short vowels
1	Complete the word with the correct short vowel 
 
2	Spell the short a word 
 
3	Spell the short e word 
 
4	Spell the short i word 
 
5	Spell the short o word 
 
6	Spell the short u word 
 
 
H.	Silent e
1	Choose the silent e word that matches the picture 
 
2	Complete the silent e words 
 
3	Spell the silent e word 
 
4	Choose the silent e sentence that matches the picture 
 
I.	Vowel teams
1	Choose the picture that matches the vowel team word 
 
2	Complete the vowel team words 
 
3	Complete the word with the correct vowel team 
 
4	Choose the vowel team sentence that matches the picture 
 
J.	Short and long vowel patterns
1	Sort short and long vowel words 
 
2	Match the short a and long a words to pictures 
 
3	Match the short e and long e words to pictures 
 
4	Choose the short i or long i word that matches the picture 
 
5	Choose the short o or long o word that matches the picture 
 
6	Choose the short u or long u word that matches the picture 
 
7	Use spelling patterns to sort long and short vowel words 
 
K.	Long vowel patterns
1	Choose the words with a given long vowel 
 
2	Spell the long a word: silent e, ai, ay 
 
3	Spell the long e word: ee, ea 
 
4	Spell the long i word: silent e, ie, y 
 
5	Spell the long o word: silent e, oa, ow 
 
6	Spell the long u word: silent e, ue, oo, ew 
 
L.	R-controlled vowels
1	Choose the r-control word that matches the picture 
 
2	Complete the word with the correct r-controlled vowel: ar, er, ir, or, ur 
 
3	Complete the word with the correct r-controlled vowel: er, ir, ur 
 
4	Choose the r-control sentence that matches the picture 
 
 
M.	Diphthongs: oi, oy, ou, ow
1	Choose the diphthong word that matches the picture 
 
2	Complete the word with the correct diphthong: oi, oy, ou, ow 
 
3	Choose the diphthong sentence that matches the picture 
 
N.	Variant vowels
1	Complete words with variant vowels 
 
2	Which word has a different vowel sound? 
 
O.	Soft g and c
1	Sort soft and hard g words and soft and hard c words 
 
2	Pick the soft g or soft c word that matches the picture 
 
3	Choose the soft g or soft c sentence that matches the picture 
 
4	Spell the soft g or soft c word 
 
P.	Open and closed syllables
1	Is the syllable open or closed? 
 
2	Spell words with open and closed syllables 
 
3	Complete the sentence with the correct closed vowel exception word 
 
Q.	Two-syllable words
1	Put two syllables together to create a word: easier 
 
2	Put two syllables together to create a word: harder 
 
3	Complete the two-syllable words 
 
4	Complete the sentence with a two-syllable word 
 
R.	Consonant-l-e
1	Complete the consonant-l-e words 
 
2	Choose the correct spelling of the consonant-l-e word 
 
3	Spell the consonant-l-e word 
 
S.	Sight words
1	Choose the sight word that you hear 
 
2	Complete the sentence with the correct sight word 
 
3	Spell the sight word 
 
Reading strategies
T.	Sequence
1	Order events in a story 
U.	Inference and analysis
1	Which book title goes with the picture? 
2	Use actions and dialogue to understand characters 
V.	Theme
1	Determine the themes of myths, fables, and folktales 
W.	Setting and character
1	Choose the picture that matches the setting or character 
X.	Topic and purpose
1	Identify the purpose of a text 
2	Determine the topic and purpose of informational passages 
 
Y.	Cause and effect
1	Match each effect to its cause 
2	Match each cause to its effect 
Z.	Compare and contrast
1	Compare and contrast in informational passages 
AA.	Text features
1	Use text features 
BB.	Read-along literary texts
1	Read along with realistic fiction 
2	Read along with fantasy 
3	Read along with historical fiction 
CC.	Read-alone literary texts
1	Read animal fantasy 
2	Read realistic fiction 
3	Read science fiction 
 
DD.	Read-along informational texts
1	Read along about science and nature 
2	Read along about famous people 
3	Read along about art, music, and traditions 
4	Read along about business and technology 
EE.	Read-alone informational texts
1	Read about animals 
2	Read about sports and hobbies 
3	Read about famous places 
4	Read about famous people 
Writing strategies
FF.	Organizing writing
1	Put the sentences in order 
GG.	Topic sentences
1	Select the detail that does not support the topic sentence 
2	Choose topic sentences for narrative paragraphs 
3	Choose topic sentences for expository paragraphs 
HH.	Linking words
1	Use conjunctions 
2	Use subordinating conjunctions 
3	Identify time-order words 
4	Use time-order words 
5	Use linking words to complete a passage 
 
II.	Author's purpose
1	Choose the text that matches the writer's purpose 
JJ.	Opinion writing
1	Complete the fact and opinion sentences 
2	Complete the opinion passage with an example 
3	Complete the opinion passage with a reason 
4	Complete the opinion-reason-example table 
 
KK.	Descriptive details
1	Choose the sensory details that match the picture 
2	Add descriptive details to sentences 
3	Revise the sentence using a stronger verb 
4	Insert dialogue into a story 
LL.	Sentence variety
1	Combine sentences: subjects 
2	Combine sentences: predicates 
3	Combine sentences: subjects and predicates 
4	Rewrite sentences using introductory elements 
Vocabulary
MM.	Prefixes and suffixes
1	Complete the word with the ending that you hear 
2	Identify base words, prefixes, and suffixes 
3	Determine the meaning of a word with pre-, re-, or mis- 
4	Use the prefixes pre-, re-, and mis- 
5	Determine the meaning of a word with -ful or -less 
6	Prefixes and suffixes: review 
NN.	Compound words
1	Form compound words with pictures 
2	Form compound words 
3	Form and use compound words 
OO.	Categories
1	Sort words into categories 
2	Which word is not like the others? 
 
PP.	Synonyms and antonyms
1	Choose the synonym 
2	Find synonyms in context 
3	Choose the antonym 
4	Which sentence uses an antonym? 
5	Find antonyms in context 
6	Which sentence has the same meaning? 
QQ.	Homophones
1	Homophones with pictures 
2	Identify homophones 
3	Use the correct homophone 
RR.	Multiple-meaning words
1	Multiple-meaning words with pictures 
SS.	Shades of meaning
1	Shades of meaning with pictures 
2	Find the words with related meanings 
3	Describe the difference between related words 
4	Order related words based on meaning 
 
TT.	Idioms
1	Choose the picture that matches the idiomatic expression 
UU.	Context clues
1	Use context to identify the meaning of a word 
VV.	Reference skills
1	Order alphabetically based on the first letter 
2	Order alphabetically based on the first two letters 
3	Order alphabetically based on the first three letters 
4	Use guide words 
5	Use dictionary entries 
Grammar and mechanics
WW.	Sentences, fragments, and run-ons
1	Is the sentence a statement, question, command, or exclamation? 
2	Identify the subject of a sentence 
3	Identify the predicate of a sentence 
4	Is it a complete sentence or a fragment? 
 
5	Is it a complete sentence or a run-on? 
6	Is it a complete sentence, a fragment, or a run-on? 
 
7	Unscramble the words to make a complete sentence 
XX.	Nouns
1	Select the nouns 
2	Which word is a noun? 
3	Identify nouns 
4	Sort common and proper nouns 
5	Identify common and proper nouns 
6	Form regular plurals with -s and -es 
7	Use regular plurals with -s and -es 
8	Use singular and plural nouns 
9	Is the noun singular or plural? 
10	Form and use irregular plurals 
11	Identify plurals, singular possessives, and plural possessives 
12	Form the singular or plural possessive 
13	Identify and correct errors with plural and possessive nouns 
YY.	Pronouns
1	Identify personal pronouns 
2	Choose between subject and object personal pronouns 
3	Replace the singular noun with a personal pronoun 
4	Replace the plural noun with a personal pronoun 
5	Compound subjects and objects with "I" and "me" 
6	Choose the correct personal pronoun 
7	Identify possessive pronouns 
8	Use possessive pronouns 
9	Choose between personal and reflexive pronouns 
10	Use reflexive pronouns 
 
ZZ.	Verb types
1	Use action verbs 
2	Identify action verbs 
3	Identify helping verbs 
AAA.	Subject-verb agreement
1	One or more than one? 
2	Use the correct subject or verb 
3	Pronoun-verb agreement 
BBB.	Verb tense
1	Which sentence is in the regular past tense? 
2	Identify verbs in the regular past tense 
3	Form and use the regular past tense 
4	Place sentences on a timeline 
5	Change the sentence to future tense 
6	Identify the irregular past tense I 
7	Identify the irregular past tense II 
8	Form and use the irregular past tense: set 1 
9	Form and use the irregular past tense: set 2 
10	Form and use the irregular past tense: set 3 
11	Form and use the irregular past tense: set 4 
12	Match the -ed and -ing sentences to the pictures 
13	To be: use the correct present tense form 
14	To be: use the correct past tense form 
15	To be: use the correct form 
16	To have: use the correct form 
17	Place sentences with irregular verbs on a timeline 
18	Is the sentence in the past, present, or future tense? 
CCC.	Articles
1	Use the correct article: a or an 
2	Identify articles 
 
DDD.	Adjectives and adverbs
1	Use sense words 
2	Does the adjective tell you what kind or how many? 
3	Identify the adjective that describes the noun 
4	Identify adjectives 
5	Identify comparative and superlative adjectives 
6	Does the adverb tell you how, when, or where? 
7	Identify adverbs 
8	Choose between adjectives and adverbs 
9	Is the word an adjective or adverb? 
EEE.	Prepositions
1	Select the best preposition to match the picture 
2	Select the best preposition to complete the sentence 
FFF.	Contractions
1	Match the contractions 
2	Form pronoun-verb contractions 
3	Form contractions with "not" 
4	Use pronoun-verb contractions 
5	Use contractions with "not" 
6	Use contractions in a sentence 
GGG.	Punctuation
1	Commas with a series 
2	Commas with dates 
3	Commas with the names of places 
4	Commas: review 
HHH.	Capitalization
1	Capitalizing the names of people and pets 
2	Capitalizing days, months, and holidays 
3	Capitalizing the names of places and geographic features 
4	Capitalization: review 
5	Capitalizing titles 
6	Greetings and closings of letters 
III.	Abbreviations
1	Abbreviate days of the week 
2	Abbreviate months of the year 