Second grade science
A.	Materials
1	Identify properties of an object
2	Compare properties of objects
3	Compare properties of materials
4	Identify materials in objects
5	Identify multiple materials in objects
B.	States of matter
1	Classify matter as solid or liquid
2	Identify solids and liquids
3	Classify matter as solid, liquid, or gas
4	Identify solids, liquids, and gases
5	Sort solids, liquids, and gases
C.	Changes of state
1	Changes caused by heating and cooling
2	Change-of-state diagrams: solid and liquid
3	Change-of-state diagrams: liquid and gas
4	Change-of-state diagrams: solid, liquid, and gas
5	Heating, cooling, and changes of state: melting and freezing
6	Heating, cooling, and changes of state: evaporating and condensing
D.	Heat
1	Predict heat flow
E.	Physical and chemical change
1	Identify physical and chemical changes
F.	Mixtures
1	Identify mixtures
G.	Force and motion
1	Identify pushes and pulls
2	How do mass and force affect motion?
3	Compare the speeds of moving objects
H.	Magnets
•	New! What objects can a magnet pull?
•	New! How do magnets attract and repel each other?
1	Identify magnets that attract or repel
2	Label magnets that attract or repel
 
I.	Classification
1	Identify living and nonliving things
2	Identify plants and animals
3	Identify mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, and amphibians
4	Identify animals with and without backbones
J.	Animals
1	Read animal life cycle diagrams
2	Construct animal life cycle diagrams
3	Compare different animals' life cycles
4	Body parts and their functions
K.	Plants
1	Classify fruits and vegetables as plant parts
2	Identify plant parts and their functions
3	Read and construct flowering plant life cycle diagrams
4	How do flowering plants make new plants?
L.	Traits
1	Observe traits
2	Observe and compare traits
3	Introduction to adaptations
M.	Ecosystems
1	How do living things change their environments to meet their needs?
2	How do gray squirrels change the forest to meet their needs?
3	Where do dromedary camels and polar bears live?
4	Where do giraffes and beavers live?
5	Where do whale sharks and tree frogs live?
6	Where do turtle grass and giant sequoias live?
7	Where do water lilies and saguaros live?
8	Where do bearberries and powdery strap air plants live?
9	Pollinator: ruby-throated hummingbird
10	Pollinator: Indian flying fox
11	Pollinator: painted lady butterfly
12	Seed disperser: Eurasian red squirrel
13	Seed disperser: African elephant
14	Seed disperser: common ostrich
15	Benefits of group behavior: North American caribou
16	Benefits of group behavior: African wild dogs
17	Benefits of group behavior: leaf-cutter ants
 
N.	Rocks and minerals
1	Classify rocks and minerals by color and shape
O.	Weather
1	Describe the weather
2	Types of precipitation
3	Severe weather: blizzards
4	Severe weather: tornadoes
5	Severe weather: hurricanes
6	Read a thermometer
7	Compare temperatures on thermometers
P.	Earth's features
1	Bodies of water
2	Water on Earth
3	Natural resources
4	Identify Earth’s land features
Q.	Earth events
1	Classify changes to Earth's surface
2	Find evidence of changes to Earth's surface
3	Changes to Earth's surface: earthquakes
4	Changes to Earth's surface: volcanic eruptions
5	Changes to Earth's surface: erosion
R.	Units and measurement
1	Choose units of time
2	Choose customary units of distance
3	Choose metric units of distance
4	Abbreviate time and length units
5	Abbreviate mass and volume units
S.	Human impacts
•	New! Reduce, reuse, recycle
T.	Engineering practices
•	New! Evaluate multiple design solutions to prevent erosion