Video title: ADHD Child vs. Non-ADHD Child Interview
    
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-IO6zqIm88s&t=174s
    
Video language: English (auto-generated)
    
--------------------------------

how old are you six and a half six and what grade are you in first grade first grade do you like school yeah why do you like school because I like to play with my friends at recess why don't you like school because I have to do a lot of stuff and my little sister's really cute and I want to spend more time with my little sister how long does it take you to do your homework a long time or a short time maybe five or ten minutes I don't know sort of in the middle do you have a hard time with your homework sometimes how do you do on tests good well I usually get A's but not a pluses so I don't know and I almost get every single one right well aren't you still proud of yourself for getting A's I don't know I just feel normal you feel you just feel normal you don't feel proud of yourself [Music] do you have a lot of friends yeah no how do you feel about having a lot of friends happy how do you feel about not having a lot of friends do you get invited to parties yeah not usually do you ever get bullied uh no sometimes do you think you are smart yeah I don't know do you think you are handsome yeah do you think you are pretty sometimes what do you like about yourself how smart I am and how good I draw I like myself because because I like Jesus and God and they're really important is there anything that you dislike about yourself ah nope sometimes I be bad how do you be bad by giving attitude to my mom hmm why do you think you give attitude I don't know sometimes I just get into moods it depends on how good the day is when I have a bad day then I get all grumpy he and and negative and when I have a good day that I get head all positive and happy what do you want other kids like your age to know that don't have ADHD what do you want them to know about the kids that do have ADHD but they are that they are better at listening than them and uh they and that they um and that they could help them and how can they help the kids with ADHD by telling them that whatever you do it's still right because you tried your best


DISCLAIMER:


By using this tool to convert YouTube videos to Text, you acknowledge and agree to the following:


1. User Responsibility: You are responsible for ensuring that your use of this tool complies with all applicable copyright laws and YouTube's Terms of Use. This includes obtaining any necessary permissions from the original content creators before reproducing or distributing any content.


2. Content Ownership: The transcripts generated by this tool are based on publicly available content from YouTube. You do not own the rights to the original video content or its transcripts. All copyrights and ownership rights remain with the original content creators.


3. Attribution: This tool provides the URL of the original YouTube video for reference purposes. You are encouraged to include proper attribution when sharing the generated Text.


4. Limitations of Liability: We disclaim any liability for the misuse of the content generated through this tool. By using this tool, you agree to hold us harmless from any claims or disputes arising from your use of the content.