Video title: Second Grade Conversation
    
Video URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6zueBYAn45c
    
Video language: English (auto-generated)
    
--------------------------------

my name is Jack hi my name is Rachel and I'm going into seventh grade and I'm from Lincoln Elementary School my name is Colby hi my name is Jason Peres I'm in my 27th year in public education and going into my third and junior year I gaze gregarious foolish two summers and see if the answers changed or see if you have a similar answer that you've had in the past and we'll be able to watch that from a the one now the two and we'll keep watching that as you as you grow and this is by far on the first day of school the teachers favorite thing to view it's not me talking to them in the morning they really like watching the videos so so I'm excited about doing this again I'll ask your questions and then you just dumb answer like you did in the previous years so I only stopped when we start over there with Abby I mean what was your favorite first grade end of the day dismissal music and Jeb my teacher teacher gym class recess recess Colby what would you like to be Explorer teacher truck driver police officer person saves Tigers fantastic so three things in one to be very busy and helping people yes which likely when you horse rider that sounds fun which like a pilot what is your favorite food General Tso's chicken Abby what is your favorite food Jack what's your favorite food a peach Abby what's your favorite food peaches all right Rachel what's your favorite food chicken pot pie I like this too Kolby what your favorite food apple chase favorite food pizza Tommy's chase what is your favorite story or book [Music] dr. Seuss books that's a great choice I haven't get a favorite book your story three little pigs I'm with you on that Colby favorite story monster trucks chase secondses chase seconds monster trucks okay Carlo favorite story [Music] princesses Jack let get your favorite story yet put your favorite story I'm sorry Dinah stories he'll steal interesting fuchsia purple favorite color pink gold and silver red red what do you look forward to the most learning in second grade and today okay gym in the morning music music in gym it's been a school fantastic recess lunch what was it art class beyond artists verging on the artist yes what would you be most excited about the started kindergarten I'm sorry right here [Music]


DISCLAIMER:


By using this tool to convert YouTube videos to Text, you acknowledge and agree to the following:


1. User Responsibility: You are responsible for ensuring that your use of this tool complies with all applicable copyright laws and YouTube's Terms of Use. This includes obtaining any necessary permissions from the original content creators before reproducing or distributing any content.


2. Content Ownership: The transcripts generated by this tool are based on publicly available content from YouTube. You do not own the rights to the original video content or its transcripts. All copyrights and ownership rights remain with the original content creators.


3. Attribution: This tool provides the URL of the original YouTube video for reference purposes. You are encouraged to include proper attribution when sharing the generated Text.


4. Limitations of Liability: We disclaim any liability for the misuse of the content generated through this tool. By using this tool, you agree to hold us harmless from any claims or disputes arising from your use of the content.