7-Year-Old Child Development Milestones
​
Some might say that having a 7-year-old is the “sweet spot” of parenting. That's because many 7-year-olds are independent, but they still enjoy being around their family.


7-Year-Old Language and Cognitive Milestones
For many 7-year-olds, reading and math skills will become more developed, and they’ll be able to write more legibly,
tie their shoes on their own, and learn to ride a two-wheel bike.

More advanced language skills
By 7 years old, your child should be speaking in full, complex sentences, and they should be able to articulate their ideas clearly and thoughtfully.
When your child speaks, they won’t sound like a little kid anymore, and you'll likely notice that you can have more mature conversations with them.
“By the age of 7, grammar skills are mostly mastered,” says Emily Rooker, a speech-language pathologist at
Bright SpOT Pediatric Therapy. “Children will regularly use complex sentences when communicating and will sound adult-like.”

Figurative language comprehension
Additionally, says Rooker, you may notice that your child can answer both factual and inferential questions more thoroughly. They're starting to gain an understanding of figurative language, and they're comprehending that words can have multiple meanings.

Independent reading
At this age, your child is thinking more complexly and can understand more nuanced subjects. Your child should start reading independently, as well as solve basic word problems in math.
All children are different, of course, and some children still struggle with reading and math concepts. If you are concerned about your child’s academic abilities, it’s important to stay in touch with their teachers and other school professionals.

7-Year-Old Language Checklist
Can understand the concept of minutes, hours, days, and months
Even people outside of the family can understand their words
More clear pronunciation: “th” sound no longer sounds like an “f” sound, for example
May still have trouble sounding out harder words while they read
Have mastered the basic skills of reading and writing
Imperfect spelling

7-Year-Old Physical Milestones
Here are some physical milestones to expect from your 7-year-old, as well as overall lifestyle milestones.

Growth and development
Your child is certainly growing at this age, but they aren’t growing as rapidly as they did when they were a baby or a preschooler. Plus, they'll lose more of their baby teeth.

Gross and fine motor skills
Your child’s gross and fine motor skills should be progressing, meeting a few exciting milestones.
“Most 7-year-olds should be able to ride a two-wheeled bike, tie shoe laces independently, and write up to five-word sentences and up to five-sentence paragraphs,” says Caitlin Sanschagrin, an occupational therapist at
Bright SpOT Pediatric Therapy

Physical and mental health
Physical Milestones Checklist
Here are some physical milestones to expect with a 7-year-old:
Climbs on the playground
Swims
Uses scissors
Writes name
Dresses independently
Catches a ball

Additionally, parents should be aware that mental health issues have been on the rise, even in children as young as age 6. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC),
diagnoses of anxiety
or depression in kids from 6 to 17 increased over the last reported years.


7-Year-Old Emotional and Social Milestones
At 7, children are starting to become individual people, but they're also still very attached to their parents.
You'll notice that your child’s friendships are more important than they once were, and they can form meaningful relationships with other adults in their lives, such as their extended family members and coaches or teachers.
Below are some other social milestones you may notice at 7 years old.

Empathy
At this age, children fine-tune an important trait that they'll carry through life:
empathy
. “They are developing the ability to understand the perspectives of others and learning how to manage their emotions better,” says Rooker. “They are also becoming more empathetic.”
Many 7-year-old kids still have fears and may have trouble separating from their parents at times, such as when they go to school.
School anxiety
is still somewhat typical at this age.

Self-consciousness
Your child will begin caring about what other people think of them, which means that they'll try to regulate their moods in public. However, they may also develop more self-consciousness and be more vulnerable to criticism.
Dr. Cobham-Browne says that parents have a role in
teaching their children self-regulation skills
. Emphasize that your children use their words to express their feelings, rather than acting out. For example, you can encourage your child to articulate their anger in words rather than by screaming or being physically aggressive.

Conversational awareness
Your child is becoming quite a sophisticated conversationalist at this age, which is another clue that they're learning to socialize in more mature ways. “Seven-year-olds typically start and end conversations appropriately,” says Rooker. “They can stay on topic and follow other conversation ‘rules.’”

Friendship changes
Your child’s budding ability to interact with others in more meaningful, mature ways will mean deeper friendships and a greater need for social interaction.
Children this age usually prefer to play with kids of the same sex. They may feel comfortable playing in large groups but still crave time alone.
Dr. Cobham-Browne recommends enrolling your child in group sports so that they can learn important skills like teamwork and cooperation.

Other Milestones for Your 7-Year-Old
By this age, your child should:
Dress themselves
Brush and floss their teeth twice a day
Shower semi-independently

How to Help Your 7-Year-Old Learn and Grow
Here's how to support them best at this age.
Consider positive discipline
. Even at this age, children are testing limits and boundaries. Whenever possible, it’s best to
practice positive discipline
and natural consequences rather than resort to punishment.
Support their emotional health
. You’ll also want to be attentive to your child’s emotional world, and continue to be gentle with them if they experience upset feelings, anxiety, or low
self-esteem
. “Encourage positive self-esteem by reinforcing what your child does well instead of focusing on the negative,” suggests Dr. Cobham-Browne.
Encourage a daily routine
. Dr. Cobham-Browne also says that kids this age need a strong daily routine and that giving your child
age-appropriate chores
, and even
an allowance
, is helpful. “I always tell parents we should supply their 'needs' not their 'wants,’” she says. “The child needs to learn to save and do some extra chores to get extra money to contribute to ‘wants.’”
