2nd grade skills checklist: social & emotional skills
Second grade readiness checklists
Social & emotional development
Appears comfortable and
confident
in self and abilities
Respects others and the rights of others
Follows classroom rules and routines
Accepts responsibility for behavior and actions
Uses materials appropriately and respectfully
Makes independent choices of materials and activities
Sustains attention to work over a period of time
Works, plays and shares with others
Interacts easily with adults
Participates in group activities
Shows empathy and caring for others
Uses words to reason and resolve conflicts
Seeks help when unable to resolve conflicts
Uses words appropriately
Completes tasks
Tips for parents to help children become socially and emotionally ready for second grade:
Be a role model at all times, especially when you are in a conflict or faced with a difficult decision. Describe out loud the thought process you go through as you decide how to react to a situation.
Praise your child for positive behaviors and making smart decisions, and point out small successes. ("That was a good decision to share the cupcake so you both got a little bit.")
Give your child the opportunity to make
choices
; when your child is having a difficult moment, offer up two suggestions with consequences ("You can either leave your toys on the floor and choose to give up tonight's bedtime story, or you can pick up your toys and earn an extra ten minutes of storytime."). Abide by these consequences.
Organize brief
family study
periods every night; make this habit a part of your family life so that it becomes something your child looks forward to as “together time.” Have plenty of study materials for your child so that this time is spent reading, writing or focusing, not on looking for something to do.
When other adults are present,
ask your child a question
or two that you know they can answer and enjoy discussing (their favorite toy or the family pet). Listen to your child’s responses and ask further questions to encourage attention to detail (“What kind of ice cream did Francis drop on the floor?”)
More Like This
See all
article
type