Speech Therapy for 8-Year-Old: Speech and Language Development Milestones
8-Year-Old Speech and Language Development Milestones:
The following skills are all expected to emerge by the end of 3rd grade (8-9 years old).  Not all children will acquire all of these skills by this age.  If a child is missing a few skills, we generally don’t worry too much.  However, if a child is far off from many of these skills, we like to get them in for a speech/language assessment/evaluation.

Speech Therapy Kits & Activities for 8-Year-Olds
8-Year-Old Speech Milestones (Sound Production)
8-Year-Old speech milestones refer specifically to the sounds that a child is able to speak.  We use the term “speech” to refer to how a child pronounces words, whereas “language” is used to describe how children use those words to create sentences and communicate with those around them.
Intelligibility:
Is understood all of the time
Uses all speech sounds correctly (keep in mind some areas limit the speech sounds that school SLPs can address until later ages)
Is no longer be using phonological processes (speech sound error patterns)


8-Year-Old Language Milestones
When we look at 8-year-old language milestones, we are looking at how a child is using words and putting those words together to communicate with those around them.  A lot goes into language skills.  Here is a checklist of the 8-year-old language development milestones.  School-age language skills are taken from the
Common Core State Standards
.  This is a standardized curriculum that is commonly used in the United States.  Not all school curriculums will follow these language skill timelines exactly.
Can ask and answer questions to demonstrate understanding and clarify things that are unclear.
Can tell or retell real or imagined experiences or events using effective technique, descriptive details, and clear event sequences.
Can convey ideas and information clearly (with spoken language) by stating a topic, providing details about it, using linking words (like “also” and “but”), and making a concluding statement.
Can state opinions (with spoken language) by stating an opinion and providing reasons that support their opinion.
Can explain the function of nouns, pronouns, verbs, adjectives, and adverbs.
Can form and use different types of nouns, such as regular and irregular plural nouns (cats, children, etc.) and abstract nouns (childhood).
Can form and use various types of verbs, including regular and irregular verbs and simple verb tenses (e.g., I walked; I walk; I will walk).
Uses correct subject-verb agreement (“he walks” instead of “he walk”) and pronoun-antecedent agreement (using a pronoun that matches the subject of the sentence) when speaking.
Uses possessives when speaking (possessive ‘s and possessive pronouns like “his/her”).
Can correctly use comparatives (bigger, faster) and superlatives (biggest, fastest) when speaking.
Speaks in a variety of sentence types, including simple (I walk to the store), compound (I walk to the store and she walks to the park), and complex (Since I was out of bread, I walked to the store).
Can use sentence-level context as a clue to the meaning of an unknown or multiple-meaning word or phrase (ex: Can read a sentence and figure out an unknown word based on the rest of the sentence).
Understands how a word is broken up into a root word and prefixes/suffixes. Can guess the meaning of an unknown word by looking for familiar roots, prefixes, and suffixes.
Can use a beginning dictionary (print or online) to determine or clarify the meaning of a word.
Can distinguish the literal and nonliteral meanings of words and phrases in context. (ex: the teacher told the children to “take their seats” but she meant “sit down”).
Can distinguish shades of meaning among related words that describe states of mind or degrees of certainty (e.g., suspected vs. knew; nervous vs. terrified).
Can identify real-life connections between words and their use (describe people who are friendly or helpful).


8-Year-Old Social Skill/Interaction Milestones
Another aspect of 8-year-old speech milestones is how well they can interact with others.  Here are some milestones related to social skills and interaction.
Listens well in groups
Asks and Answer Questions
Stays on topic and introduces new and related topics
Tells a shorter version of a story correctly
Knows how to talk in different ways in different places. For example, using a quiet voice in the library and an “outside” voice on the playground.
Peer and friend groups take precedence over family
Shows increasing independent decision-making and a growing need for independence from family
Starts to understand sarcasm and its pragmatic purpose
