Language and Education
A 7-year-old child, typically in second grade, normally will be developing more complex sentences as they grow.

They’ll learn to speak better and be able to follow a longer series of commands than they could at age 6.
They have begun to see that some words have more than one meaning. That helps them understand jokes and puns and start verbally expressing a sense of humor.
Children in early school years can show fast growth in mental ability.

By now, children:

Understand the concept of numbers
Know day from night, and left from right
Can tell time
Can repeat three numbers backward

Development
Baby teeth will be falling out to make room for permanent teeth.
Kids in this age group generally grow about 2.5 inches a year and 4 to 7 pounds a year.
A sense of body image has begun.
Children in early school years also complain more about tummy aches, leg pains, and such. That might be because they’re becoming more aware of their bodies. Still, parents should check these complaints out to make sure there’s no injury or illness.

Social, Emotional
From ages 6 to 8, kids are getting more and more independent from their parents. They will try to show how big they are, and do things that might be dangerous.
Peer acceptance becomes more important than before in the early school years. They are learning to cooperate and share.
Boys will tend to play with boys, and girls with girls.
Parents should let kids make their own choices about sports and toys -- what’s “for boys” or “for girls” and such. And keep a range of diverse, non-stereotypical examples around.
It’s about now that kids start to develop skills and attention spans and understand teamwork to start playing organized sports.
With growing language skills, kids get increasingly better at describing what has happened, what they feel, and what they think.
Lying, cheating, and stealing are to be expected somewhat in early school years. Kids are figuring out where they fit, the difference between right and wrong, and what’s acceptable.


